---
categories: dev
date: 2015-05-24T16:50:00Z
tags: git
title: Git Tips
url: /2015/05/24/Git-Tips/
---

Here are some useful but less-common Git features.

### git clean

This removes untracked files from the working tree. Why would you do this? Let's say
you run a build process that litters the working tree with temporary files in
dozens of folders, instead of being neat and tidy and putting it in a ```build```
folder.

This will remove all untracked files, including ignored ones, and remove untracked
directories as well:

{{< highlight bash >}}
git clean -d -x
{{< / highlight >}}

There are a handful of options, but this is my preferred "make it really clean"
approach. You can use this with ```git reset``` to get back to a pristine working
directory.

[git-clean](http://git-scm.com/docs/git-clean)

## git pull --rebase

Prefer to pull with rebasing instead of merging. Generally, your local changes
were meant to be applied to the tip of the remote repository, so why not get
in the habit of keeping your files rebased?

{{< highlight bash >}}
git pull --rebase
{{< / highlight >}}

This is essentially the same as this

{{< highlight bash >}}
git fetch
git rebase
{{< / highlight >}}

You can also set a few entries in config so that this happens without needing
the ```--rebase``` flag. To set this so ```master``` branch always rebases:

{{< highlight bash >}}
git config branch.master.rebase true
{{< / highlight >}}

or to set it up so new branches always rebase automatically:

{{< highlight bash >}}
git config --global branch.autosetuprebase always
{{< / highlight >}}

There will still be cases where you will want to merge, but generally this would
be an explicit step of merging a (feature) branch onto a (production) branch.

[git-pull](http://git-scm.com/docs/git-pull)

[git-rebase](http://git-scm.com/docs/git-rebase)

## See what's been cherry-picked

If you have a workflow where you are cherry-picking commits from one branch to
another, it's useful to see what has been cherry-picked. If you want to see what
has and hasn't been cherry-picked from the current branch to ```master```:

{{< highlight bash >}}
git cherry -v master
{{< / highlight >}}

This shows all commits on the current branch, prefixed with ```+``` for commits
that have not yet been cherry-picked and with ```-``` for commits that have
already been cherry-picked.
